# Call Stack and Debugging

* A call stack is a mechanism for an interpreter (like the JavaScript interpreter in a web browser) to keep track of its place in a script that calls multiple functions. 
  - When a script calls a function, the interpreter adds it to the call stack and then starts carrying out the function.
  - Any functions that are called by that function are added to the call stack further up and run where their calls are reached.
  - When the current function is finished, the interpreter takes it off the stack and resumes execution where it left off in the last code listing.
  - If the stack takes up more space than it had assigned to it, it results in a "stack overflow" error.

* The call stack operates by the data structure principle of LIFO (Last In, First Out). This means that the last function that gets pushed into the stack is the first to be popped out when the function returns.

* Temporarily store: When a function is invoked, the function, its parameters, and variables are pushed into the call stack to form a stack frame. The stack frame is a memory location in the stack. The memory is cleared when the function returns as it is popped out of the stack.
* Manage function invocation: The call stack maintains a record of the position of each stack frame.
* Stack overflow occurs when there is a recursive function (a function that calls itself) without an exit point. The browser (hosting environment) has a maximum stack call that it can accommodate before throwing a stack error.
* The call stack is single-threaded, it can only do one thing at a time.
* Code execution is synchronous.

# JavaScript Debugging

* Types of error messages
  - Reference Errors: When you try to use a variable that is not yet declared.
  - Syntax Errors: This occurs when you have something that cannot be parsed in terms of syntax, like when you try to parse an invalid object using JSON.parse.
  - Range Errors: When you try and manipulate an object with some kind of length and give it an invalid length, this kind of error will show up.
  - Type errors: This shows up when the types (number, string, etc.) you are trying to use or access are incompatible, like accessing a property in an undefined type of variable.

* Debug by using console.log() or breakpoints.
