# Pair Programming

* **jQuery** is a JavaScript file that you include in your web pages. It lets you find elements using CSS-style selectors and then do something with the elements using jQuery methods.
* `${}` jQuery function
* To use jQuery you must include the jQuery script in the page. 1<script src=js/jquery-1.11.0.js></script>`
* jQuery's motto: Write less, Do more.

* When you select one or more elements, a jQuery object is returned. It is also known as a **matched set** or a **jquery selection**.

* When you create a selection with jQuery, it stores a reference to the corresponding nodes in the DOM tree. It does not creat copies of them.

* The ability to update all of the elements in the jQuery selectioh is known as **implicit iteration**.
* The process of placing several methods in the same selctor is reffered to as **chaining**.
* jQuery `.ready()` method checks that the page is ready for your code to work with.
* the `.html()` and `.text()` methods both retrieve and update the content of elements.
* The `.replaceWith()` and `.remove()` methods replace and remove the elements they match with. 
* `.before()` and `.after()` methods insert content before or after and element.
* `.prepend()` inserts content inside the selected element before the opening tag.
* `.append()` inserts content inside the selected elements before the closing tag.
* You can work with any attribute on any element using the `.attr()` or `.removeAttr()` methods.
* `.addClass()` and `.removeClass()` allow you to add or remove an individual class name within the value of a class attribute.
* The `.each()` method is used to loop through a list of items and run an anonymous function for each of them.
* The `this` keyword is used to create a new jQuery selector.

* for a list of the functionality provided in jQuery visit [this link](http://api.jquery.com)


## Six Reasons for Pair Programming

* Greater Efficiency: Pair programming may take longer but produces higher-quality code that doesn't require later effort in troubleshooting and debugging.
* Engaged Collaboration: The experience of pair programming is more engaging and keeps the programmers foucsed on the task at hand instead of procrastinating.
* Learning from fellow students: You can learn from the other persons strengths and they can learn from yours. Also teaching information to another person helps solidify that concept for yourself.
* Social Skills: Pair Programming makes you commincate and helps you to devlop better interpersonal skills.
* Job Interview Readiness: Pair programming is common in the interview setting, so using this method really helps you get ahead. It also helps you be a better commincator and learner.
* Work environment readiness: Many companies use pairprogramming to train fresh hires. By already knowing how to utilize this skill you have already gotten past that obstacle and can hit the ground running at a new job.