# SQL

* SQL (Structured Query Language), is a language desinged to allow both technical and non-technical users query, manipulate, and transform data from a relational database. 
* A relational database represents a colection of realted (2d) tables. Each of the tables are similar to an excel spreadsheet, with a fized number of named columns and any numbers of rows of data.

* To retrieve data from a SQL database, we need to write **SELECT** statements, which are reffered to as queries. A query in itself is just a statement which declares what data we are looking for, where to find it in the database, and optionally, how to transform it before it is returned. 
* Select query for a specific column `SELECT column FROM mytable;`
* Select query for all columns `SELECT * FROM mytable;`

* In order to filter certain results from being returned, we need to use a **WHERE** clause in the query. The clause is applied to each row of data by checking specific column values to detirmine whether it should be included or not.

* More complex clauses can be constructed by joining numerous **AND** or **OR** logival keywords.

*  SQL provides a convenient way to discard rows that have a duplicate column value by using the **DISTINCT** keyword.
* Since the **DISTINCT** keyword will blindly remove duplicate rows, we will learn in a future lesson how to discard duplicates based on specific columns using grouping and the **GROUP BY** clause.

* In SQL, the database schema is what describes the structure of each table, and the datatypes that each column of the table can contain.

* When inserting data into a database, we need to use an **INSERT** statement, which declares which table to write into, the columns of data that we are filling, and one or more rows of data to insert

* When you need to delete data from a table in the database, you can use a **DELETE** statement, which describes the table to act on, and the rows of the table to delete through the **WHERE**** clause.
```
DELETE FROM mytable
WHERE condition;
```

* When you have new entities and relationships to store in your database, you can create a new database table using the **CREATE TABLE** statement.

* Use the **ALTER TABLE** statement to add, remove, or modify columns and table constraints.