# Flexbox and Templating

* Mustache is a logic-less template syntax. It can be used for HTML, config files, source code, anything .
* `{{placeholder}}`

* The flexbox layout module baims at providing a more efficient way to lay out, align and distribute space among items in a container, even when their size is unknown and/or dynamic.


- Display: defines the flex container; enable a flex content for all of its direct children.
- align-items: This CSS property aligns items vertically and accepts the following values:
  - Flex-direction: Establishes the main-axis
  - flex-start: Items align to the top of the container.
  - flex-end: Items align to the bottom of the container.
  - center: Items align at the vertical center of the container.
  - baseline: Items display at the baseline of the container.
  - stretch: Items are stretched to fit the container.

- flex-direction. This CSS property defines the direction items are placed in the container, and accepts the following values:
  - row: Items are placed the same as the text direction.
  - row-reverse: Items are placed opposite to the text direction.
  - column: Items are placed top to bottom.
  - column-reverse: Items are placed bottom to top.

*  flex-wrap 
  - nowrap: Every item is fit to a single line.
  - wrap: Items wrap around to additional lines.
  - wrap-reverse: Items wrap around to additional lines in reverse.

* align-content to set how multiple lines are spaced apart from each other. This property takes the following values:
  - flex-start: Lines are packed at the top of the container.
  - flex-end: Lines are packed at the bottom of the container.
  - center: Lines are packed at the vertical center of the container.
  - space-between: Lines display with equal spacing between them.
  - space-around: Lines display with equal spacing around them.
  - stretch: Lines are stretched to fit the container.

*  justify-content property, which aligns items horizontally and accepts the following values:
  - flex-start: Items align to the left side of the container.
  - flex-end: Items align to the right side of the container.
  - center: Items align at the center of the container.
  - space-between: Items display with equal spacing between them.
  - space-around: Items display with equal spacing around them