# Hooks API

## Review, Research and Discussion

1. Why do we not need more .html pages in a multi-page React app?
  - In Multi-page apps, we get back multiple HTML pages, where each page has content for given Router.
  - SOURCE: (morioh)[https://morioh.com/p/1e31a980e5a6]
2. If we wanted a component to show up on every page, where would we put it and why?
    * Inside the ``` <BrowserRouter />``` , outside a ```<Route />```
3. What does props.children contain?
  - used to display whatever you include between the opening and closing tags when invoking a component.

## Vocab Terms

* Composition
  - composition is a natural pattern of the component model. It's how we build components from other components, of varying complexity and specialization through props. Depending on how generalized these components are, they can be used in building many other components.
  - SOURCE: [dev](https://dev.to/bouhm/thinking-in-react-component-composition-fp5)
  
  0
* Children / Child Components
  - A child component is a more specific part inside a parent component. Example would be a parent component being a PERSON. ARMS and LEGS are child components of it.
  Source: [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44092105/what-is-the-difference-between-child-and-parent-component-in-angular-2)
* Hash Routing
  - It uses URL hash, it puts no limitations on supported browsers or web server. Server-side routing is independent from client-side routing.
  - SOURCE: [stackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51974369/hashrouter-vs-browserrouter)
* Link Routing
  - Provides declarative, accessible navigation around your application.
  - SOURCE: [reactrouter](https://reactrouter.com/web/api/Link)
  - The primary way to allow users to navigate around your application. <Link> will render a fully accessible anchor tag with the proper href.
  - A <Link> can know when the route it links to is active and automatically apply an activeClassName and/or activeStyle when given either prop. The <Link> will be active if the current route is either the linked route or any descendant of the linked route. To have the link be active only on the exact linked route, use <IndexLink> instead or set the onlyActiveOnIndex prop.
- SOURCE: [knowbody](https://knowbody.github.io/react-router-docs/api/Link.html)

## Notes
* Hooks let us organize the logic inside a component into reusable isolated units
* Hooks let you always use functions instead of having to constantly switch between functions, classes, higher-order components, and render props.
*  A Hook is a special function that lets you “hook into” React features. For example, useState is a Hook that lets you add React state to function components. We’ll learn other Hooks later.
* What does calling useState do? It declares a “state variable”. Our variable is called count but we could call it anything else, like banana. This is a way to “preserve” some values between the function calls — useState is a new way to use the exact same capabilities that this.state provides in a class. Normally, variables “disappear” when the function exits but state variables are preserved by React.
*Only call Hooks at the top level. Don’t call Hooks inside loops, conditions, or nested functions.
Only call Hooks from React function components. Don’t call Hooks from regular JavaScript functions. (There is just one other valid place to call Hooks — your own custom Hooks. We’ll learn about them in a moment.)