# ACESS CONTROL (ACL)

### REview, REsearch Discussion

1. When is Basic Authorization used vs. Bearer Authorization?
  - Basic authenitcation is used when using a username and a secret
  - Bearer authentication is used when using a token.
  - SOURCE [stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34013299/web-api-authentication-basic-vs-bearer#:~:text=2%20Answers&text=The%20Basic%20and%20Digest%20authentication,is%20described%20by%20the%20RFC6750.)
2. What does the JSON Web Token package do? 
  - it defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON objext. This information can be verified and trusted because it is digitally signed. JWTs can be signed using a secret or a public/private key.
  - SOURCE: [jwt.io](https://jwt.io/introduction/)
3. What considerations should we make when creating and storing a SECRET?
  - DON'T store unecrypted secretes in .git repositories. (PUBLIC CAN SEE THEM)
  - DON'T share your secrets unecrypted in messaging systems like slack.
  - Store secrets safely.
  - RESTRICT API acess and permissions.
  - SOURCE: [gitguardian](https://blog.gitguardian.com/secrets-api-management/)


  
### Term
* encryption
  - the method by which information is converted into secret code that hides the information's true meaning.
  - SOURCE [searchsecurity](https://searchsecurity.techtarget.com/definition/encryption#:~:text=Encryption%20is%20the%20method%20by,encrypted%20data%20is%20called%20ciphertext.)
* token
  -  small card that displays an identification code used to log into a network. When the card user enters the correct password, the card will display the current ID needed to log into the network. This adds an extra level of protection to the network because the IDs change every few minutes. Security tokens also come in software versions, called soft tokens.
  - SOURCE: [techterms](https://techterms.com/definition/token#:~:text=In%20programming%2C%20a%20token%20is,tokens%20of%20the%20JavaScript%20language.)
* bearer
* secret
* JSON Web Token