# OAuth

### Reveiw, Research, and Discussion

1. Why is authentication important?
- It enables organizations to keep thier networks secure by permitting only authenticated users (or processes) to access its protected resources, which may include computer systems, networks, databases, websites and other network-based applications or services.
- SOURCE: [searchsecurity](https://searchsecurity.techtarget.com/definition/authentication#:~:text=Authentication%20is%20important%20because%20it,network%2Dbased%20applications%20or%20services.)
2. Why should we be careful about storing a user’s password?
- Because if it isn't secure someone else can go in and take the information compromising the user's security and also the trust they have for your application

3. What is the difference between hashing and encryption?
- Encryption is a two-way function; what is encrypted can be decrypted with the proper key.
- Hashing however is a one-way function that scrambles plain text to produce a unique message digest. With a properly designed algorithm, there is no way to reverse the hashing process to reveal the original password. 
- SOURCE: [GCN](https://gcn.com/articles/2013/12/02/hashing-vs-encryption.aspx#:~:text=Encryption%20is%20a%20two%2Dway,to%20reveal%20the%20original%20password.)

4. What is the difference between encryption and encoding?
- Encryption is for maintaining data *confidentiality* and requires the use of a key (kept secret) in order to return to plaintext.
- Encoding is for maintaining data *usability* and can be reversed by employing the same algorithm that encoded the content (no key is used).
- SOURCE: [danielmiessler](https://danielmiessler.com/study/encoding-encryption-hashing-obfuscation/#:~:text=Encoding%20is%20for%20maintaining%20data,order%20to%20return%20to%20plaintext.)

5. What is a token used for?
- A token is used to make securit y decisions and to store tamper-proof information about some system entity. While a token is generally used to represent only security information, it is capable of holding additional free-form data that can be attached while the token is being created.
- SOURCE: [WIKI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Access_token#:~:text=A%20token%20is%20used%20to,the%20token%20is%20being%20created.)

## VOCAB

* authentication
- authorization
- encryption
  - Encryption is for maintaining data *confidentiality* and requires the use of a key (kept secret) in order to return to plaintext.
- hashing
  - a one-way function that scrambles plain text to produce a unique message digest. With a properly designed algorithm, there is no way to reverse the hashing process to reveal the original password. 
- session
- cookie
- token
- Basic Auth
- encoding
- secret
- cryptography