# Authentication

#### User Modeling
* You need user models to store user's sensitive information so they can trust your application.

* In a User model, a hash password can be stored when the user signs up. When the user needs to login, they can resend their password and the server can hash the login password using the same hash algorithm. The server can then compare the hashed login password with previously stored hashed password to determine if the user should be authenticated.

#### Cryptography
* The science which studies methods for encoding messages so that they can only be read by a person who knows the secret information for deconding, called the kep.

* Cryptanalysis: the science of decoding encrypted messages without possessing the proper key, and has several other branches.

#### Hash Algorithms
* A cryptographic hash algortithm takes a piece of data and produces a hash that is deliberatley difficult to reverse.

* Hash algorithms are often used for checking the integrity of data.

#### Cypher Algorithms

* Cryptographic Cypher Algorithms take a piece of data and a key and produces encrypted data. Later the encrypted data can be reversed into the original data by decrypting it using the same key.

### Reasearch and Discussion

1. Explain what a “Singleton” is (in Computer Science terms)
* A singleton is a class that allows only a single instance of itself to be created and gives access to that created instance. It contains static variables that can accommodate unique and private instances of itself. It is used in programming languages such as Java and .NET to define a global variable.

1. Explain how the Singleton pattern can be used with Node modules, specifically with classes
* A signleton makes it so you can create only one instance of an obeject no matter hoe many times the object is instantiated. Ig there's already an instance, a singleton will create a new done.
[Medium](https://medium.com/@maheshkumawat_83392/node-js-design-patterns-singleton-pattern-series-1-1e0ab71e3edf)

1. If you were tasked with building a middleware system like Express uses, what approach might you take to construct/operate it?

### Vocab
* Router Middleware: workis in the same was as app-level middleware but is bount to an instance of the express.Router().
[Medium](https://medium.com/@selvaganesh93/how-node-js-middleware-works-d8e02a936113)

* Dynamic Module Loading: 
Singleton Pattern
CRUD -> REST Method Matches
Mock Testing