# Data Structure Stacks and Queues

* A stack is a data structure that consists of ***Nodes***. Each node references the next node in the stack, but does not reference its previous.

## Terminology
* Push - Nodes or items that are put into the stack are pushed
* Pop - Nodes or items that are removed from the stack are popped. When you attempt to pop an empty stack an exception will be raised.
* Top - This is the top of the stack.
* Peek - When you peek you will view the value of the top Node in the stack. When you attempt to peek an empty stack an exception will be raised.
* IsEmpty - returns true when stack is empty otherwise returns false.

## Stack Concepts
* FILO (First in Last out): The first item added in the stack will be the last item popped out of the stack.
* LIFO(Last in First Out)" The last item added to the stack will be the first item popped out of the stack.

## Queue Terminology

* Enqueue - Nodes or items that are added to the queue.
* Dequeue - Nodes or items that are removed from the queue. If called when the queue is empty an exception will be raised.
* Front - This is the front/first Node of the queue.
* Rear - This is the rear/last Node of the queue.
* Peek - When you peek you will view the value of the front Node in the queue. If called when the queue is empty an exception will be raised.
* IsEmpty - returns true when queue is empty otherwise returns false.

### Queue Concepts
- FIFO: First item in queue will be first item out
- LIFO: Last item in the queue will be the last item out of the queue

* When you add an item to a queue, you use the ```enqueue``` action.
* When you remove an item from a queue, you use the ```dequeue``` action. 