# Solving Problems

## Steps for being successful at solving programming problems.

  1. Read the problem completely twice.
    - You want to make sure you completely understand the problem. A good test of this is whether or not you can explain the probelm to someone else.
  1. Solve the problem manually.
    - Programming is automation, there is a manual process that is the foundation of any code you write. 
    - It is important that when you solve a problem manually, you recognize what the brain is actually doing to solve the problem. 

    ex of reversing a string:
     - Write “Zebra” down.
     - Start a new word, and put “a” as the first letter.  (Why –> because it is the last letter, we want to start here)
     - Put “r” down as the 2nd letter.  (Why –> because it is the next letter backwards from the last letter we copied)
     - Put “b” down as the 3rd letter.  (Why –> same as above)
     - Etc 
  1. Optimize the manual solution.
    - Figure out if there is another way you can solve the problem easier or if there are some steps you can cut off or simplify.
  1. Write pseudo-code or comments.
    -Capture all the steps we created and now either put them into our editor as comments or write them as pseudo-code that we can translate to real code.
    By doing this we can know exactly what the structure of the code we are going to write is going to look like.
  1. Replace comments with real code.
    - Take eacg comment and convert it into a real line of code.
    - If you struggle here it is because you didn't break down the problem into small enough steps, or you don't know your programming language well enough to do the conversion.
    - You should know how to do the following things:
      - Create a list
      - Sort a list or array
      - Create a map or dictionary
      - Loop through a list, or dictionary
      - Parse strings
      - Convert from string to int, int to string, etc
  1. Optimize the real code.
    - Take a look at your code and figure out if you can cut out a few lines or do something simpler.
    - Make sure all your variables are named with long meaningful names, this helps the person evaluating the code understand what you were trying to do. Make code DRY.

- If a problem involves multiple large steps or is very complicated, try and find a way to cut the problem in half and the following th above steps for each half.
      
# Act like you make $1000/hr
  - Imagine that an hour of your time is worth $1,000, what would your life look like?

  - Lives are wasted by doing thankless work for ungrateful takers that didn't deserve your time in the first place.

  - Busyness and stress are a sign you are off track, it means you've been lazy and undisciplined and have let too many unimportant tasks take you away from what really matters.

  - Successful people have a crystal clear vision on their goals and do what they need to get ther, every single day.

  - Busyness and exhaustion are the enemy, Do less work, but with complete hard focus.

  - If you don't treat your time with respect, you will become unhappy, resentful, and tired.

# How to think like a Programmer

- Programming is all about a more effective way for problem-solving.

- The best way to problem solve involves having a framework, and practicing it.
  - To find the right framework:
    1. Understand: Know exactly what is being asked. Problems are usually hard because you don't understand the,/ You know you can understand a problem when you are able to explain it in plain english. 
    2. Plan: Plan out your solution, give your brain time to analyze the problem and process the information. To get a good plan answer the question, "Given input X, what are the steps necessary to return output Y?".
    3. Divide: Do not try to solve one big problem, instead break it into sub-problems. Then, solve each sub-problem one-by-one. Begin withe the simplest, the one you know the answer to.
    4. Stuck?: Take a deep breath. Debug by going step-by-step through your solution trying to find where ytou went wrong. Reassess, take a step back and look at the problem from another perspective. Research, look it up on Google!
    4. Practice: Solve a lot of problems. Find an outlet to practice problem solving.

- [A good resource for coding challenges.](https://coderbyte.com/)

# The 5 Why's.

- When a problem occurs, you drill down to its root by asking "Why?" five times. Then, when a counter measure becomes apparent, you follow it through to prevent the issue from recurring.

## How to use the 5 Whys.
  1. Assemble a team: Gather people who are familiar with the specifics of the problem, and include a facilitator to keep the team focused on identifying effective counter measures.
  1. Define the proble,: Observe the problem in action. Discuss it with your team and write a bried, clear problem or statement that you all agrre on. Then, write your statement on a whiteboard or sticky note, leaving enough space around it to add your answers to the repeated question, "Why?"
  1. Ask the first "why?": Ask your team why the problem is occuring. Asking this is simple but answering it requires serious thought. The answer has to be factual.
  1. Ask "Why?" four more times: For each of the answers generated in step 3, ask four more "whys" in succession. Each time, frame the question in response to the answer you've recorded.
  1. Know when to stop: You will know that you have reached the root cause of the problem when asking why produces no more useful responses. 
  1. Address the Root Cause(s): Discuss and agree on the counter measures that will prevent the problem from recurring.
  1. Monitor your measures: Keep a close watch on how effectively your counter-measures eliminate or minimize the initial problem. You may need to amend them or replace them enitrely.