# HTTP and REST

* HTTP (Hyper Text Transfer Protocol) is a stateless request-response application layer protocol. It is used to build distributed, collaborative, hypermedia information systems. 
* Clients are hosts that make requests to the service.
## HTTP METHODS
* GET-Retrieve a resource
* HEAD- Like GET but headers only
* POST- Create a resource
* PUT - Update a resource
* DELETE - Delete a resource
* CONNECT - Create a TCP/IP tunnel
* OPTIONS - Returns supported methods for a URL
* TRACE - Echos retrieved request
* PATCH - Partial modification of a resource.


- Safe methods should only be used for information retrieval and should not change the server state
- Indempotent methods means if two identical requests are made they should get an identical response.
- Cacheable means the client should be able to cache the response.

## REST
* Rest is an acronym for Representational State Transfer. By which we can manipulate, reference and transfer state. 

REST METHODS
* GET	READ	Retrieve 1 or More Records
* POST	CREATE	Create a new record
* PUT	UPDATE	Update a record through replacement (Put it back)
* PATCH	UPDATE	Update a record (just the parts that changed)
* DESTROY	DELETE	Remove a record

## SWAGGER
* The standard for documenting REST APIs is thith a live documentation system like Swagger(openAPI)

***Generating Swagger Docs***
1. Visit and review the docs and overview at Swagger.io
1. Sign in to the Swagger Inspector
1. Visit your API, using all applicable REST endpoints and data
1. Note that on the right side, it’ll keep your history
1. Once you’ve gone through all of your routes, use the radio buttons select the routes you want to document
1. Click the “Create API Definition” button
1. Follow the instructions to import your new API documentation to Swagger Hub
1. You can leave it running there, or download the definition as .yml or .json and use it in your own project