# Linked Lists

* A linked list is a sequence of nodes that are connected/linked to each other. The most defining feature of a linked list is that each node references the next node in the link.
* Linked lists are **linear data structures**, which means that there is a sequence and an order to how they are constructed and traveresed. It is like a game of hopscotch: in order to get to the end of the list, we have to go through all the items in the list in order, or *sequentially*.
* Linked lists don't need to be contiguous in memort, they can grow dynamically.
  *  a dynamic data structure can shrink and grow in memory. It doesn’t need a set amount of memory to be allocated in order to exist, and its size and shape can change, and the amount of memory it needs can change as well.

## Terminology

* Singly- Refers to the number of references the node has. A singly linked list means that there is only one reference, and the reference points to the next node in a linked list.
* Doubly- Referes to there being two references within the node. It means it is linked to both the next and previous node.
* Circular- has a node that acts as the tail of the list (rather than the conventional head node), and the node after the tail node is the beginning of the list. 
* Node- Nodes are the individual items/links that live in a linked list. Each node contains the data for each linke. A node only knows about what data it contains, and who its neighbor is.
Head- The head is a reference type of type Node to the first node in a linked list.

## Traversal

* when traversing a linked list you can not use a for or forEach loop, it all depends on the next value in each node to get us where the next reference is pointing.
* the best way to approach such a traversal is through the use of a While loop. this lets us continually check that the next node in the list is not null. 

## Big 0

* Big O Notation is a way of evaluating the performance of an algorithm.
* Big O notation is a way to express the amount of time that a function, action, or algorithm takes to run based on how many elements we pass to that function.

 * An **O(1)** function takes constant time, which is to say that it doesn’t matter how many elements we have, or how huge our input is: it’ll always take the same amount of time and memory to run our algorithm.
 * An **O(n)** function is linear, which means that as our input grows (from ten numbers, to ten thousand, to ten million), the space and time that we need to run that algorithm grows linearly.

 